Update OIDC documentation with OIDC list (#1979)
kyma-project/kyma-environment-broker: docs/user/04-10-custom-oidc-configuration.md

# Custom OIDC Configuration

Configure a custom Open ID Connect (OIDC) as a list of `oidc` objects. Alternatively, for backward compatibility, you can configure it as a single `oidc` object.

To create SAP BTP, Kyma runtime with a custom OIDC configuration, you can specify either a list of `oidc` objects or a single `oidc` object as a provisioning parameter. While both options are supported, using a list of `oidc` objects is the recommended approach, even if you are defining only one OIDC configuration. The list allows you to define multiple OIDC configurations. The single `oidc` object is only supported for backward compatibility.

If you do not include an `oidc` list or a single `oidc` object in the provisioning request, the default OIDC configuration is applied. However, if you provide an empty `oidc` list with zero elements, no OIDC configuration is applied to the instance. 

> > [!NOTE]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> > The single `oidc` object defaults to the predefined values when its properties are left empty. However, you must explicitly define the `oidc` list because it does not inherit the default values for its items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The single `oidc` object defaults to the predefined values when its properties are left empty. However, you must explicitly define the `oidc` list because it does not inherit the default values for its items.
```

> See an example with the OIDC list:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> [!NOTE]

> > When using the `oidc` list for custom OIDC configuration, you must provide values for all fields except **requiredClaims**. Otherwise, you get a provisioning error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When using the `oidc` list for custom OIDC configuration, you must provide values for each element in the list except for **requiredClaims**. Otherwise, you get a provisioning error.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

See an example with the OIDC list:

```

During SAP BTP, Kyma runtime provisioning or update, you can provide your custom Open ID Connect \(OIDC\) configuration as a list of `oidc` objects or as a single `oidc` object. You can also have no OIDC configuration.

## Configuring the OIDC Property as a List of `oidc` Objects

Configure the `oidc` property as a list of `oidc` objects. In this way, you can define zero, one, or multiple OIDC configurations. When using the list of `oidc` objects, you must provide values for each element except for `requiredClaims`. By configuring the OIDC details yourself, you gain full visibility of your settings within the SAP BTP cockpit. For your convenience, in the SAP BTP cockpit, one `oidc` object has the predefined values filled in, but you can change them. For each additional `oidc` object, you must provide your own settings.

## Provisioning Kyma Runtime with the `oidc` List

When configuring your OIDC setup, you have the following options:
-   If you use an `oidc` list, you must explicitly define values for all its elements, because they do not inherit default values.
-   If you provide an empty `oidc` list with zero elements, no OIDC configuration is applied to the instance.

> ### Example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Example
```

      "context" : {
        "globalaccount_id" : {GLOBAL_ACCOUNT_ID}
      },
      "parameters" : {
        "region": {REGION},
        "name" : {CLUSTER_NAME},
        "oidc" : {
          "list": [
            {
              "clientID" : "custom-client-id",
              "issuerURL" : "https://custom.issuer.com",
              "groupsClaim" : "groups",
              "groupsPrefix" : "-",
              "signingAlgs" : ["RS256"],
              "usernamePrefix" : "-",
              "usernameClaim" : "sub",
              "requiredClaims" : ["first-claim=value", "second-claim=value"]
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
    ```

    You see a configuration similar to this one:

    ```
    {
      ...
      "oidc" : {
        "list": [
          {
            "clientID" : "custom-client-id",
            "issuerURL" : "https://custom.issuer.com",
            "groupsClaim" : "groups",
            "groupsPrefix" : "-",
            "signingAlgs" : ["RS256"],
            "usernamePrefix" : "-",
            "usernameClaim" : "sub",
            "requiredClaims" : ["first-claim=value", "second-claim=value"]
          }
        ]
      }
      ...
    }
    ```

> ## Updating Kyma Runtime with the `oidc` List

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Updating Kyma Runtime with the `oidc` List
```

You can update the OIDC configuration from a single `oidc` object to an `oidc` list, but updating from an `oidc` list to a single `oidc` object is not supported.

When updating your OIDC configuration, you have the following options:

-   If you are updating your `oidc` list, you must explicitly define values for all its elements, because they do not inherit default values.
-   The update operation overwrites the OIDC configuration values provided in JSON for the `oidc` list, so if you provide OIDC parameters with empty values, they are considered valid and replace the existing settings.
-   If you provide an empty `oidc` list, it clears the OIDC configuration for the instance.

> ### Example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Example
```

    ```

    You see the configuration with the values provided in the request:

    ```
    [
      {
       "clientID": "new-client-id",
       "issuerURL": "https://new.issuer.com",
       "groupsClaim": "groups",
       "groupsPrefix": "-",
       "usernameClaim": "sub",
       "usernamePrefix": "-",
       "signingAlgs": ["RS256"],
       "requiredClaims": []
      },
      {
       "clientID": "updated-client-id",
       "issuerURL": "https://updated.issuer.com",
       "groupsClaim": "groups",
       "groupsPrefix": "-",
       "usernameClaim": "sub",
       "usernamePrefix": "acme-",
       "signingAlgs": ["RS256"],
       "requiredClaims": []
      }
    ]
    ```

## Configuring the OIDC Property as a Single `oidc` Object

This solution is not recommended, and is only supported for maintaining backward compatibility with existing automations. With this approach you cannot have multiple OIDC configurations for your Kyma runtime.

In the SAP BTP cockpit, you can only see the parameters that you configure yourself. Since you must provide values only for `clientID` and `issuerURL` in a single `oidc` object, the visibility of your complete OIDC configuration may be limited.

> ## Provisioning Kyma Runtime with a Single `oidc` Object

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Provisioning Kyma Runtime with a Single `oidc` Object
```

When configuring your OIDC setup, you have the following options:

-   If you do not include an `oidc` object in the provisioning request at all, the default OIDC configuration is applied.
-   If you leave the parameters of a single `oidc` object empty, it defaults to the predefined values.

> ### Example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Example
```

-   See a request with an `oidc` object with empty keys:

    ```
    {
      "service_id" : "47c9dcbf-ff30-448e-ab36-d3bad66ba281",
      "plan_id" : "4deee563-e5ec-4731-b9b1-53b42d855f0c",
      "context" : {
        "globalaccount_id" : {GLOBAL_ACCOUNT_ID}
      },
      "parameters" : {
        "region": {REGION},
        "name" : {CLUSTER_NAME},
        "oidc" : {
          "clientID" : "",
          "issuerURL" : "",
          "groupsClaim" : "",
          "groupsPrefix" : "",
          "signingAlgs" : [],
          "usernamePrefix" : "",
          "usernameClaim" : "",
          "requiredClaims" : []
        }
      }
    }
    ```

    The result is the default OIDC configuration:

    ```
    {
      ...
      "oidc" : {
        "clientID" : "12b13a26-d993-4d0c-aa08-5f5852bbdff6",
        "issuerURL" : "https://kyma.accounts.ondemand.com",
        "groupsClaim" : "groups",
        "groupsPrefix" : "-",
        "signingAlgs" : ["RS256"],
        "usernamePrefix" : "-",
        "usernameClaim" : "sub",
        "requiredClaims" : []
      }
      ...
    }
    ```

> ## Updating Kyma Runtime with a Single `oidc` Object

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Updating Kyma Runtime with a Single `oidc` Object
```

You can update the OIDC configuration from a single `oidc` object to an `oidc` list, but updating from an `oidc` list to a single `oidc` object is not supported.

When updating your OIDC configuration, you have the following options:

-   If you provide no `oidc` object in the update request, the existing OIDC configuration remains unchanged.
-   If you update using a single `oidc` object, empty keys do not change the configuration, and only the provided values are updated.

> ### Example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Example
```

    }
    ```

    To update this configuration, send an HTTP PATCH request with the following payload:

    ```
    {
      "service_id": "47c9dcbf-ff30-448e-ab36-d3bad66ba281",
      "plan_id": "4deee563-e5ec-4731-b9b1-53b42d855f0c",
      "context": {
       "globalaccount_id": "{GLOBAL_ACCOUNT_ID}"
      },
      "parameters": {
       "name": "{CLUSTER_NAME}",
       "oidc": {
        "clientID": "new-client-id",
        "issuerURL": "https://new.issuer.com",
        "groupsClaim": "",
        "groupsPrefix": "",
        "signingAlgs": [],
        "usernamePrefix": "",
        "usernameClaim": "",
        "requiredClaims": []
       }
      }
    }
    ```

    You see the configuration with the values provided in the request, similar to this one:

    ```
    {
      "clientID": "new-client-id",
      "issuerURL": "https://new.issuer.com",
      "groupsClaim": "groups",
      "groupsPrefix": "-",
      "usernameClaim": "sub",
      "usernamePrefix": "-",
      "signingAlgs": ["RS256"],
      "requiredClaims": []
    }
    ```

## Configuration with no OIDC Property

You can provision or update your Kyma runtime without providing the OIDC property at all.

> ## Provisioning Kyma Runtime with No OIDC Property

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Provisioning Kyma Runtime with No OIDC Property
```

If you do not include an `oidc` parameter in the provisioning request at all, the default OIDC configuration is applied.

> ### Example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Example
```

-   See an example of a provisioning request without specifying any `oidc` configuration:

    ```
    {
      "service_id" : "47c9dcbf-ff30-448e-ab36-d3bad66ba281",
      "plan_id" : "4deee563-e5ec-4731-b9b1-53b42d855f0c",
      "context" : {
        "globalaccount_id" : {GLOBAL_ACCOUNT_ID}
      },
      "parameters" : {
        "region": {REGION},
        "name" : {CLUSTER_NAME}
      }
    }
    ```

    The resulting configuration has default values like in the following example. You can only view this configuration in your cluster.

    ```
    {
      ...
      "oidc" : {
        "clientID" : "12b13a26-d993-4d0c-aa08-5f5852bbdff6",
        "issuerURL" : "https://kyma.accounts.ondemand.com",
        "groupsClaim" : "groups",
        "groupsPrefix" : "-",
        "signingAlgs" : ["RS256"],
        "usernamePrefix" : "-",
        "usernameClaim" : "sub",
        "requiredClaims" : []
      }
      ...
    }
    ```

> ## Updating Kyma Runtime with No OIDC Property

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Updating Kyma Runtime with No OIDC Property
```

         "usernamePrefix": "-",
         "requiredClaims": []
        },
        {
         "clientID": "test",
         "issuerURL": "https://test.com",
         "groupsClaim": "groups",
         "groupsPrefix": "-",
         "usernameClaim": "sub",
         "usernamePrefix": "acme-",
         "signingAlgs": ["RS256"],
         "requiredClaims": []
        }
      ]
     }
    }
  }
  ```

3. **Updated OIDC Configuration**  
  After the update, the OIDC configuration is modified to reflect the values provided in the request:

  ```json
  [
    {
     "clientID": "9bd05ed7-a930-44e6-8c79-e6defeb7dec9",
     "issuerURL": "https://kymatest.accounts400.ondemand.com",
     "groupsClaim": "groups",
     "groupsPrefix": "-",
     "usernameClaim": "sub",
     "usernamePrefix": "-",
     "signingAlgs": ["RS256"],
     "requiredClaims": []
    },
    {
     "clientID": "test",
     "issuerURL": "https://test.com",
     "groupsClaim": "groups",
     "groupsPrefix": "-",
     "usernameClaim": "sub",
     "usernamePrefix": "acme-",
     "signingAlgs": ["RS256"],
     "requiredClaims": []
    }
  ]
  ```

---

### Scenario 2: Updating an Instance with a Single OIDC Object

> 1. **Current OIDC Configuration**  
>   The instance has the following OIDC object configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The instance has the following OIDC object configuration:
```

  ```json
  {
    "clientID": "9bd05ed7-a930-44e6-8c79-e6defeb7dec9",
    "issuerURL": "https://kymatest.accounts400.ondemand.com",
    "groupsClaim": "groups",
    "groupsPrefix": "-",
    "usernameClaim": "sub",
    "usernamePrefix": "-",
    "signingAlgs": ["RS256"],
    "requiredClaims": []
  }
  ```

> 2. **Update Request**  
>   The user sends an HTTP PATCH request with the following payload to update the OIDC configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. To update the OIDC configuration, the user sends an HTTP PATCH request with the following payload:
```

  ```json
  {
    "service_id": "47c9dcbf-ff30-448e-ab36-d3bad66ba281",
    "plan_id": "4deee563-e5ec-4731-b9b1-53b42d855f0c",
    "context": {
     "globalaccount_id": "{GLOBAL_ACCOUNT_ID}"
    },
    "parameters": {
     "name": "{CLUSTER_NAME}",
     "oidc": {
      "clientID": "new-client-id",
      "issuerURL": "https://new-issuer-url.local.com",
      "groupsClaim": "",
      "groupsPrefix": "",
      "signingAlgs": [],
      "usernamePrefix": "",
      "usernameClaim": "",
      "requiredClaims": []
     }
    }
  }
  ```

> 3. **Updated OIDC Configuration**  
>   After the update, the OIDC configuration is modified to reflect the values provided in the request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. After the update, the OIDC configuration is modified to reflect the values provided in the request:
```
